README.md, before:

# Pool Temperature Monitoring Project

This is a personal project to deliver temperature data from several DS18B20 temperature sensors, connected via
an ESP32-based embedded system, to a web-based dashboard.

It currently consists of a MQTT Broker (Mosquitto), Telegraf (acting as an MQTT Consumer), InfluxDB,
Chronograf and Kapacitor (the so-called [TICK](https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/) stack).

In this initial version of the project, the services required are running on a Raspberry Pi 3, via Docker.

## Dependencies

Docker Compose:

    $ pip install docker-compose

## Building

To build all the docker containers:

    $ cd services
    $ docker-compose build

## Running

To start the stack (`--force-recreate` used to ensure fresh containers):

    $ cd services
    $ docker-compose -p poolmon up --force-recreate

Hit CTRL-C to terminate the stack. You can then bring it back up with the `up` command immediately, or shut\
it down entirely (to create new containers on next up) with:

    $ docker-compose -p poolmon down

If changes are made to a Dockerfile, you can rebuild the images and restart only the changed services with:

    $ docker-compose -p poolmon up -d --build

Optionally specify the service name:

    $ docker-compose -p poolmon up -d --build kapacitor

## Interfaces

Access the Chronograf interface via HTTP on port 8888.

You can use an embedded device to publish data via MQTT, or use [mqtt-spy](http://kamilfb.github.io/mqtt-spy/)
to publish data and monitor your topics. Scripts can be used to automate publishing data, such as simulating
temperature measurement data.

## TICKscripts

Kapacitor uses TICKscripts to process streams of incoming data. These can be managed by the `kapacitor` program within
the kapacitor-cli or kapacitor containers. Run `bin/kapacitor-cli` to access the former.

To register a TICKscript against a database & retention policy:

    $ kapacitor define <task_name> -type stream -tick <tick_script> -dbrp <database.rp>

For example:

    $ kapacitor define cpu_alert -type stream -tick cpu_alert.tick -dbrp telegraf.autogen

To redefine a script after it has been modified:

    $ kapacitor define <task_name> -tick <tick_script>

For example:

    $ kapacitor define cpu_alert -tick cpu_alert.tick

To enable a stream:

    $ kapacitor enable <task_name>

To disable a stream:

    $ kapacitor disable <task_name>

To record a stream:

    $ kapacitor record stream -task <task_name> -duration <duration>

This returns a recording ID. Use it as <rid> below.

To replay the stream through the task:

    $ kapacitor replay -recording <rid> -task <task_name>

To see all recordings:

    $ kapacitor list recordings

To see kapacitor processing stats:

    $ kapacitor stats ingress

To see all defined tasks (enabled or disabled):

    $ kapacitor list tasks

To examine a specific task:

    $ kapacitor show <task_name>


## Roadmap

* Add [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) to the TICK stack.
* Get ESP32 talking MQTT.
* Enable MQTT security.
* Enable InfluxDB security.

## Acknowledgements

* [rpi-mosquitto](https://github.com/pascaldevink/rpi-mosquitto.git) - Pascal de Vink
* [influxdata/TICK-docker](https://github.com/influxdata/TICK-docker/blob/master/1.2/docker-compose.yml)
* [influxdata/sandbox](https://github.com/influxdata/sandbox/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)
* [influxdata/influxdata-docker](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdata-docker)

Commit message:

Kapacitor tickscript to calculate sensor difference.

README.md, after:

# Pool Temperature Monitoring Project

This is a personal project to deliver temperature data from several DS18B20 temperature sensors, connected via
an ESP32-based embedded system, to a web-based dashboard.

It currently consists of a MQTT Broker (Mosquitto), Telegraf (acting as an MQTT Consumer), InfluxDB,
Chronograf and Kapacitor (the so-called [TICK](https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/) stack).

In this initial version of the project, the services required are running on a Raspberry Pi 3, via Docker.

## Dependencies

Docker Compose:

    $ pip install docker-compose

## Building

To build all the docker containers:

    $ cd services
    $ docker-compose build

## Running

To start the stack (`--force-recreate` used to ensure fresh containers):

    $ cd services
    $ docker-compose -p poolmon up --force-recreate

Hit CTRL-C to terminate the stack. You can then bring it back up with the `up` command immediately, or shut\
it down entirely (to create new containers on next up) with:

    $ docker-compose -p poolmon down

If changes are made to a Dockerfile, you can rebuild the images and restart only the changed services with:

    $ docker-compose -p poolmon up -d --build

Optionally specify the service name:

    $ docker-compose -p poolmon up -d --build kapacitor

## Interfaces

Access the Chronograf interface via HTTP on port 8888.

You can use an embedded device to publish data via MQTT, or use [mqtt-spy](http://kamilfb.github.io/mqtt-spy/)
to publish data and monitor your topics. Scripts can be used to automate publishing data, such as simulating
temperature measurement data.

## TICKscripts

Kapacitor uses TICKscripts to process streams of incoming data. These can be managed by the `kapacitor` program within
the kapacitor-cli or kapacitor containers. Run `bin/kapacitor-cli` to access the former.

To register a TICKscript against a database & retention policy:

    $ kapacitor define <task_name> -type stream -tick <tick_script> -dbrp <database.rp>

For example:

    $ kapacitor define cpu_alert -type stream -tick cpu_alert.tick -dbrp telegraf.autogen

To redefine a script after it has been modified:

    $ kapacitor define <task_name> -tick <tick_script>

For example:

    $ kapacitor define cpu_alert -tick cpu_alert.tick

To enable a stream:

    $ kapacitor enable <task_name>

To disable a stream:

    $ kapacitor disable <task_name>

To record a stream:

    $ kapacitor record stream -task <task_name> -duration <duration>

This returns a recording ID. Use it as <rid> below.

To replay the stream through the task:

    $ kapacitor replay -recording <rid> -task <task_name>

To see all recordings:

    $ kapacitor list recordings

To see kapacitor processing stats:

    $ kapacitor stats ingress

To see all defined tasks (enabled or disabled):

    $ kapacitor list tasks

To examine a specific task:

    $ kapacitor show <task_name>

To record a stream for a time range (note the 's' suffix for second precision):

    $ kapacitor record query -type stream \
	    -query $'select * from "<db>"."<rp>"."<measurement1>" \
		         where time >= 1504000000s and time <= 1504000070s'

To record multiple streams withina time range simulataneously:

    $ kapacitor record query -type stream \
	    -query $'select * from "<db>"."<rp>"."<measurement1>" \
		         where time >= 1504000000s and time <= 1504000070s; \
				 select * from "<db>"."<rp>"."<measurement2>" \
				 where time >= 1504000000s and time <= 1504000170s'

## Roadmap

* Add [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) to the TICK stack.
* Get ESP32 talking MQTT.
* Enable MQTT security.
* Enable InfluxDB security.

## Acknowledgements

* [rpi-mosquitto](https://github.com/pascaldevink/rpi-mosquitto.git) - Pascal de Vink
* [influxdata/TICK-docker](https://github.com/influxdata/TICK-docker/blob/master/1.2/docker-compose.yml)
* [influxdata/sandbox](https://github.com/influxdata/sandbox/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)
* [influxdata/influxdata-docker](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdata-docker)
